Consider making a donation	Average global temperatures increased by about 1 degree Celsius over the 20th century.
contact your political representatives and the media to tell them you want immediate action on climate change.	The United States contains only 5 percent of the world's population, but contributes 22 percent of the world's carbon emissions.
vote for politicians who support effective climate policies.	15 percent of carbon emissions come from deforestation and land use change.
Host a presentation for your community or workplace by requesting a presenter trained by Al Gore from The Climate Project Canada.	The Golden Toad (Bufo periglenes) is thought to be the first species to go extinct because of climate change.
consider greener options such as buses or trains, or try vacationing closer to home. You can also stay in touch with people by videoconferencing,	Personal cars and trucks in the United States emit 20 percent of the United States' carbon emissions.
 If your province doesn't have a carbon tax, ask your premier and MLA to implement one.	Air conditioning and heating account for almost half of electricity use in the average American home.
 Keep stuff out of landfills by composting kitchen scraps and garden trimmings, and recycling paper, plastic, metal and glass.	Climate change is linked to stronger hurricanes, more drought and increased coral deaths from bleaching.
Let store managers and manufacturers know you want products with minimal or recyclable packaging.	Climate change is linked to an increase in disease-carrying pests that lead to the increased spread of diseases such as dengue fever, malaria, lyme disease and West Nile virus.
Eat low on the food chain — at least one meat-free meal a day — since 18 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions come from meat and dairy production.	There is more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere today than at any point in the last 800,000 years.
Ask your utility to switch your account to clean, renewable power, such as from wind farms.	In total, the U.S. emits approximately 6 billion tons of carbon dioxide every year. 40% of that comes from power plant emissions alone.
Switch off lights	Since 1870, global sea levels have risen by about 8 inches.
Change light bulbs to compact fluorescents or LEDs.	Consequences of global warming include drought, severe hurricanes, massive fires and melting of the polar caps.
Unplug computers, TVs and other electronics when not in use.	Heat waves caused by global warming present greater risk of heat-related illness and death, most frequently among patients of diabetes who are elderly or very young.
Wash clothes in cold or warm (not hot) water.	According to the U.S. Global Change Research Program, the temperature in the U.S. has increased by 2 degrees in the last 50 years and precipitation by 5%.
Hang dry clothes when you can	Global warming puts coral reefs in danger as warmer water increases the possibility of coral diseases and the rising sea levels makes it more difficult for coral to receive adequate sunlight.
Install a programmable thermostat.	According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the decade from 2000 to 2010 was the warmest on record, and 2010 was tied with 2005 as the warmest year on record.
Look for the Energy Star® label when buying new appliances. 	oceans are warming and becoming more acidic, ice caps are melting, and sea levels are rising. [4
A home energy audit is cheaper than you think	
Walk, cycle or take transit whenever you can.	
Try carpooling or car sharing, and use the smallest, most fuel-efficient vehicle possible.	
If you are moving, choose a home within a 30-minute bike, walk or transit ride from your daily destinations. 	
Move your thermostat down 2° in winter and up 2° in summer	
Clean or replace filters on your furnace and air conditioner	
Choose energy efficient appliances when making new purchases	
Do not leave appliances on standby	
Wrap your water heater in an insulation blanket	
Move your fridge and freezer away from the cooker or boiler	
Defrost old fridges and freezers regularly	
Don’t let heat escape from your house over a long period	
Replace your old single-glazed windows with double-glazing	
Get a home energy audit	
Cover your pots while cooking	
Use the washing machine or dishwasher only when they are full	
Take a shower instead of a bath	
Insulate and weatherize your home	
Be sure you’re recycling at home	
Choose products that come with little packaging and buy refills when you can	
Reuse your shopping bag	
Reduce waste	
Plant a tree	
Buy locally grown and produced foods	
Buy fresh foods instead of frozen	
Seek out and support local farmers markets	
Buy organic foods as much as possible	
Keep your car tuned up	
Check your tires weekly to make sure they’re properly inflated	
Consider the impact of your investments	
